Alright! In this video, we are going to do
a quick look at the history of MySQL and
all it came to be.
So quick overview about MySQL, it's got
over 100 million downloads. It's by far
the most popular database in history. Like
we've said before, it is a relational
database management system. It is owned
by Oracle but MySQL is open source under
GPL and that is absolutely free to use.
You'll hear some people say My Sequel
but officially the documentation is
pronounced MySQL. This
official way but you'll hear some people
calling in My Sequel as well. So
industrialize says that's okay to say if
you will. Now in 1995 a Swedish company
called MySQL AB created it. The
original developers included Monty.
Michael Monty Widenius, I think. David
Axmark and Allan Larsson. MySQL was
actually named after Monty's daughter
My. So that's how it came up with the name
MySQL and it's been released under
GPL semi public license in 2000. By
2001 it had over 2 million active
installation so grapple gained
popularity once it was released as open
source.
In 2005, Oracle acquired Innobase, that is the
company behind the storage back-end of
MySQL and as it grew, you see here in
2006, MySQL had over 8 million
installations 320 employees, over 25
countries. Now Sun Microsystems actually
brought MySQL in 2008 for 1 billion
dollars. It had become a choice
database for large corporations, banks
and telecoms because of its durability and
reliability and scalability. Then in 2010
Oracle went after Sun Microsystems, there
some legal issues there with the EU but
the purchase was finalized so the Oracle
Corporation bound up through this
acquisition of Sun with MySQL. This
caused a lot of concern in the
community. Monty there
actually the left Sun Microsystems and
developed before a fork of MySQL called  Maria DB.
A lot of people are
concerned about what was going to happen
with MySQL. There's a lot of synical
people in the industry that thought of
Oracle saw MySQL as a competitor and
they'll think you crush it and stop it.
But that has not happened MySQL does
continue. Oracle is seeing a lot of success with
the product and Maria DB is still 100%
compatible with MySQL, API wise. The code
base has been in forked and they're
developing it separately from MySQL.
But if you want to use it, the
API itself commands that you use exactly
the same as MySQL. Some of the
features both MySQL said previously
it as a relational database management
system.
SQL stands for Structured Query Language.
It does support the ANSI standards
so I'm just happy you're seeing previously in
the course that ANSI standards on MySQL
is largely interpreted so but
it does do a pretty good job of
supporting ANSI standards. MySQL under the
covers is developed in C and C++. These are
very popular programming languages. They
do the pub on the made of machine code
that you can compile it on many different
platforms. That's why
was so easy to port to different
operating systems. MySQL is known for
being very fast, stable, and scalable. Then
we talk about MySQL clients. The client
is the chimp of software that you can use
to pop to the database, so you're going to
have communication pipe are going to
the database. You have clients for all
the major popular programming languages so
that's just suppose just about everything it goes.
Most on the features of the database, you
can write stored procedures. This is a
piece of code inside of the database that
execute against the database so it runs
locally on the database. Triggers, we haven't really
discuss those yet. Triggers are
a piece of code that so when something
happens in the database like you insert
a record the trigger will run before or
after that transaction. Cursors are
something that you can use to get a
large set of data and they kind of lets
you point a place in the data, so you can
scroll through it and look into the next
record giving the next record
so that is a programming thing.
Updated views, so views are like a
virtual table. It's an actual SQL view
but you store that inside the database.
Then, Query Caching. This is a
technology where the database is going
to remember in memory, in real memory
the results of your query, so when you
ask for that data again, it doesn't have
to go back to the file system to find
the data. It will be stored in real memory.
That's something really brings up
the performance to the database and then a
Subselects, that's a nice feature where
you can have all nested queries and we
will definitely be seeing some of that
ahead and of course. We'll get more.
Then ACID compliance so this is a very
important thing as far as the databases
work. So ACID is a concept when you have
multiple users on the system if they're
going to have of a series of sequence of
statements in a sequence so
all those statements should complete or
none of them should complete. So this
is inside of a transaction.
Think about if, a good example would
be if I'm creating an order, I'm going to
insert a order header record in which
insert like new lines that happen, so
what this is saying that if I'm doing
that in a set of a database transaction,
all those statements should completed
model complete, so meaning that the
last order line had an error none of
them that would have a half baked
transaction in the database. We will
get into transactions in the future
of the course. Consistency, so they are
valid according to the rules of database
so we talked about that previously for
the data types and different constraints
that we can do. Isolation, so the results
of the transactions are done end to end. So the
function in isolation when they
commit, they become available to all
those. Durability, so once the transaction
is committed, it remains so. Community
likes to joke about MongoDB losing data.
This is important so once you get
back a response that your transition as
committed, you can trust that data is
actually stored in the database. Some of
the novel SQL databases actually do not
support ACID compliance. They trade your
data integrity away for speed and
performance.
Underneath the covers of the database,
there's a lot of us going to be
happening there, maintaining this ACID
compliance. This is a very important
feature and this is why obviously like
banks will like MySQL because this ACID
compliance ensures such a financial
transaction completes the way you expect
it to. It's very important thing there.
MySQL Editions. We have the MySQL
Community Edition. This is the edition
MySQL that we are going to be using.
That is free. That said, it's open source
on your GPL. The Community Edition
means that it's open source but you
only get community support so if you had
a business and you're running MySQL and had
a problem with it, you would have to go
out to support forums and post there and
see if you can get somebody to help you.
It is a pretty vibrant community so
not a bad thing to do. A lot of companies
will go to MySQL Standard Edition and
this is about $2,000 per year per server
and I have a little squiggly long in
there because there are some constraints
around numbers CPU sockets that you had
on it's over and I'm not going to go
down that rabbit hole but roughly $2,000
per year per server. What this does
is gives you 24/7 support from Oracle so
if you have any problems, you can call up
Oracle and get resolution with it. So
some of that companies want when we're
running a business, if there's something
that happens to your database, obviously
you're going to want to resolve that
problem very rapidly. Technology wise,
it's technically the same as Community
Edition. The biggest thing is that you
have that support and the guarantee of
support from Oracle. Now we also have
MySQL Enterprise Edition. This is for
larger operations so when you're getting
into a more significant operational, you
add more users, more transactions on the
database. You're running a bigger system.
This gives you features for cluster
routing and partitioning. Cluster
routing is you're going to have several
database servers acting as one and
the routing is powdered. Your connections come
in and gets distributed across the
server nodes. Partitioning is a very
interesting technology. What this does is
if I have a table with a little bit
let's say a billion rows in the table,
that's going to be stored on a disks somewhere
on just somewhere. Partitioning is a
way to divide up that table across
multiple disks of different storage
options. What this allows us to do is
do is go after that data because your
disk is going to be the slowest thing that
happens inside of a computer and it
allows multiple threads go after that data so
that's a big performance boost for larger
sets of data. Now of course the
Enterprise Edition also includes
enterprise tooling for monitoring, backups,
and security and get thread pooling in
this and also some performance charts on MySQL
Standard Edition does not have thread pooling
and as you get into higher and higher
server loads, there's more and more
people connected into the database, the
thread pooling becomes very important.
This is going to be so some pretty high end
databases. MySQL Standard Edition is
going to handle quite a bit so these are
for really large things, and then the
big boy is MySQL Cluster CGE.
Think of like telecoms. This is like for
design from near linear scalability
through clustering and it's high volume
high availability so this is for
really large operations, like think
of Verizon doing text messages. They might
have a MySQL Cluster behind those text
messages. So real pretty big stuff so we're
not going to get into these. The one that
we are going to be using is the
Community Edition. We can learn a tremendous
amount from that and coming up in the
course, we'll be talking about how to
install that.